# WFN-BosonSampling
State space analysis of the boson sampling problem.
#
*The repository is organized as follows:* 

 ### /lib
 Source code files.
 - /interferometer
     - **Scheme.cpp (.h)**:  A class that describes a circuit capable of importing and exporting interferometer matrices.
- /network
  - **ConnectivityComponent.cpp (.h)**: Describes each connectivity component of the constructed network.
  - **Network.cpp (.h)**: A class that constructs a Wave Function Network (WFN) on a given sample space with a given metric and activation distance.
- /samplers
  - **BFbosonSampler.cpp (.h)**: A simple brute-force sampler that constructs the entire space of possible outcomes with its probabilities.
  - **CoherentSampler.cpp (.h)**: A sampler that uses the coherent state of light at the input of the interferometer.
  - **DistinguishableSampler.cpp (.h)**: A sampler that uses distinguishable particles.
  - **MISampler.cpp (.h)**: Metropolis Independence Sampler, as discussed in the Supplementary Information to Neville et al. (2017).
  - **MeanFieldSampler.cpp (.h)**: Mean-field sampler, the multi-mode Fock state at the input semi-classically approximated by the macroscopically populated single-particle states with random phases.
  - **UniformSampler.cpp (.h)**: A sampler from a uniform distribution constructed over a given space of possible outcomes.
  - **Sampler.cpp (.h)**: Abstract parent class for all samplers under consideration.
- /space
  - **FockState.cpp (.h)**:A class describing a multimode Fock state of light.
  - **StateSpace.cpp (.h)**: A class describing the sample space. 
 - **file_lib.cpp (.h)**: Some additional functions for exporting data in a specific format.
 - **math_lib.cpp (.h)**: Several necessary special mathematical functions.

 ### /resources
 Resources collected during the research.
  - /samples
    - /neville_12_*_batch900
      - **\*.txt**: samples divided into batches of size 900 from Neville et al. (2017), generated by a specific sampler (indicated in the folder name) for a system of 12 photons injected into a 144-mode interferometer. The first digit corresponds to the sampling iteration (0-3) and the last digits correspond to the batch number.
    - /neville_20_*_batch900
      - **\*.txt**: samples divided into batches of size 900 from Neville et al. (2017), generated by a specific sampler (indicated in the folder name) for a system of 20 photons injected into a 400-mode interferometer. The first digit corresponds to the sampling iteration (0-3) and the last digits correspond to the batch number.
    - /neville_7_*_batch900
      - **\*.txt** : samples divided into batches of size 900 from Neville et al. (2017), generated by a specific sampler (indicated in the folder name) for a system of 7 photons injected into a 49-mode interferometer. The first digit corresponds to the sampling iteration (0-3) and the last digits correspond to the batch number.
  - /scheme
    - /diff_u_5 (6)
      - **scheme_unitary_5(6)_*.txt**: Haar-random unitary interferometer matrices used for averaging over different interferometer matrices (5 and 6 photons injected into 25- and 36-mode interferometers, respectively).
    - **scheme_unitary_*.txt**: Haar-random unitaries with a given ($"\*"$) number of photons and quadratically scaled number of modes ($\*^2$).
   
   ### /tests
   Source files that use this library to perform calculations for the article.
  - **CloudPositionN.cpp**: Dependence of the cloud position on the collected number of samples, averaged over several sampling iterations on the same given scheme.
  - **Neville_test.cpp**: The validation protocol tests utilizing data from Neville et. al. (2017)
  - **diff_unitary.cpp**: Dependence of the cloud position on the collected number of samples, averaged over several sampling iterations with different interferometer matrices.
  - **mis_test.cpp**: Test for the MISampler class.
  ### /vs
 VisualStudio files.

  **bs-StateSpace.h**: Header file of this library.
  
  **bs-StateSpace.lib**: File of the described static library.
# 
### /linux_version
The described project is adapted for compilation on Linux systems.
